Software Development
====================

What I Do Best
--------------

Server-side, test-driven development

Programming Languages
---------------------

| Comfortable Working In: Java (advanced), Python (beginner), SQL
| Dabbling In: Node.js
| Completed Tutorials In: R, Go
| Mostly Forgotten But Could Again Develop In: Objective-C, C\#, VB.NET,
  Smalltalk, C, C++

I can follow code written in most languages.

Scripting
---------

Javascript, Bash

Markup
------

HTML, rST, Markdown, JSON, YAML, XML, CSS

Areas of Interest
-----------------

| IoT, Raspberry Pi, Arduino
| Mobile Applications
| REST APIs

Favorite Tools
--------------

| IDEs: Eclipse, Pycharm, VSCode, WebStorm
| Editors: Atom, gedit, ReText
| Others: FileZilla, GIMP, Insomnia (API testing), Shutter (screenshots)

Operating Systems
-----------------

Linux (Ubuntu, Centos), Mac, Windows

A Shuffle Down Memory Lane
--------------------------

I remember playing text-based games on a Commodore 64, which means I
must be getting old!

### The Early Years

Computer Science wasn\'t a subject I studied in college. Sure, I took
Calculus and a class in BASIC, but women from my socio-economic
background were expected to be teachers not engineers or scientists, if
they went to college at all. So I graduated with a degree in History and
a minor in Comparative Literature. Then I taught English as a Second
Language for four years in Taiwan, returned to the US and earned a
degree in Commercial Photography, decided I as too old to be treated
like dirt by egotistic photographers, and opted to follow my older
brother into the world of IT. Year 2000 (Y2K) remediation was ramping
up, so companies such as Compuware were hiring people with an aptitude
for programming and then training them in mainframe. I flunked the test
Compuware gave prospective new hires. Fortunately, the Resource Manager
encouraged me to take a Logic class and try again. I passed! Compuware
sent me along with a group of about 20 new hires to Detroit for three
months of mainframe programming training. Upon our return, we had to
take another test, this one on COBOL and other mainframe languages. I
flunked, so Compuware moved me to its Emerging Technologies group, where
I learned Smalltalk and taught myself Java.

#### Compuware

The main project I worked on involved reading utility meters over the
WAN and was funded by an external startup. The team had four developers
doing C and C++, two tech writers, and 3-4 Java developers. The Java
developers worked on software for field technicians, with a Java Swing
UI. It was a great group of people, and I learned a lot. The biggest
argument we developers had was where to put the curly braces in our
code. We were on the bleeding edge - continuous integration, pair
programming, and Agile complete with sticky notes stuck to a conference
room wall. Ward Cunningham, Kent Beck, and Martin Fowler were worshiped
at an almost unhealthy level. Lots of camaraderie, ribbing, and
practical jokes. After a couple of years I found myself in a lead
position on the project, mentoring new college hires. View the nitty
gritty details in the `res-compuware`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
section of my resume. Sadly, all good things must come to an end. As the
project funding was reduced, so was the staffing. I decided to move on
to another consulting company where some friends worked.

#### Centare

Out of the frying pan and into the fire. My first assignment was working
on an order and inventory system being written in C\#. So I learned C\#
on the job and spent an inordinate amount of time clarifying
requirements. Truthfully it was not an enjoyable
`stint <res-centare>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}. The next assignment
was equally odious: working on a financial system for a hedge fund
company located in a moldy office building. At least the office pranks
were prime.

The \'Reach Out and Touch Someone\' Years
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--I
had had enough of consulting and wanted a steady development job in a
single location. By this time, my brother, Andy, was working for
Ameritech, which had just been gobbled up by SBC. Andy secured me an
interview with the hiring manager, who wanted an experienced developer
to bring good software development practices to his group. I fit the
bill. Years later, the hiring manager told me what sealed the deal was
that when asked to explain Struts, I drew pictures on the whiteboard
while explaining Model-View-Controller architecture in terms an old
mainframer could understand.

#### Facilitating Bureaucracy

For 12 years, I
`facilitated bureaucracy <res-techgov>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} as
part of the Technology Governance group. My first assignment was not to
port code from ASP to Java but rather from ASP to VB.NET, so I learned
another language on the job while leading a team of two junior
developers and a DBA. The next assignment was also to port an app from
ASP to VB.NET, despite my arguing for the app to be rewritten in Java
and Struts. The ironic part was that the \"approved\" language for
development within the company was Java, here was the Tech Governance
group creating an app in a non-standard language\... and the app was
used by developers to request an exception to use a non-standard
language or technology. Eventually we developers were able to convince
management that our group\'s application really should be written in
Java, so once again the porting began. The nice thing about working in
the Tech Governance group was that it was small, so we wore many hats -
requirements analyst, project manager, architect, developer, DBA,
tester, tech writer, end-user support, server support, and whatever else
the Executive Director wanted me to do. I learned Objective-C and iOS
development in order to build a mobile app that would earn my boss some
brownie points with his boss. The mobile app connected to a RESTful API
back end, which pulled data from a database that contained information
on all the home-grown apps in the company.

#### Drifting

The people filling the leadership positions in the Technology Governance
group took a buyout package in early 2015. The team became the
proverbial hot potato, with nobody at the appropriate level wanting to
take responsibility for our group. The team was split up, and I landed
in a Java development group working on the [AT&T Java Service
Container](https://github.com/att/AJSC). I was asked to do several
`Proofs of Concept <res-middleware>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
rather than contribute code directly to any single initiative. My role
transformed into more of a researcher than a developer. When
reorganization loomed, I pursued an opportunity with the AT&T Integrated
Cloud.

#### The Cloud

The AT&T Integrated Cloud had recently formed a team dedicated to
contributing to OpenStack projects. The team was staffed with new
college hires, so management was looking for an experienced developer to
provide leadership. My `duties <res-osct>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"}
were varied, and I felt that I really drove success within this group. I
built an extensive team wiki, providing tutorials, community interaction
guidance, and internal team procedures. I love Open Source projects and
dived right in, becoming an active member of the Women of OpenStack
working group, contributing patches to various projects, attending
conferences, and building relationships with companies, developers, and
tech writers from all over the world. Because of this interaction, I was
able to move to a fantastic opportunity with AT&T Labs.

#### Open Source For All

I joined [Toby Ford\'s](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tobiasford)
organization as an Open Source Lead on a team that was 100% dedicated to
involvement with Open Source communities. Once again my
`duties <res-opensourcelead>`{.interpreted-text role="ref"} varied -
developer, tech writer, technical project management, and tester. I
interacted with OpenStack projects and became involved with Linux
Foundation projects (OPNFV, ONAP). We were able to travel not only to
conferences but also to week-long developer meetups. It was a blast!
After Toby left in 2017, our team was reorganized into AT&T Research,
who had never heard of OPNFV or most of the initiatives we were working
on. With our mandate changed, I broadened my areas of interest to Cloud
Native technologies. Due to budget cuts, our travel was severely
restricted, and our involvement with Open Source communities suffered
setbacks. During my last year, I was only involved with the Acumos
project. The rest of my time was spent on internal initiatives that
involved using Open Source products but not being directly involved with
external communities. Eventually I was let go along with many others due
to not working in one of ten designated metro areas. To stay with AT&T,
I would have had to apply for a position in one of those metro areas and
relocate at my own expense. I chose to view this departure as an
opportunity to pursue working with the Open Source communities I have
come to admire. In the uplifting words of Buzz Lightyear, \"To Infinity
and Beyond!\"
